# Chapter 18 Solutions and Guidelines

1. Use Dictionary<TKey, TValue> counts and though a single scan through the input numbers count the occurrences of each one. When you pass through a number p, if it is missing in the dictionary counts[p] = 1. If the number is already stored in the dictionary, increase its count: counts[p] = counts[p] + 1. Finally scan through the element of the dictionary (with foreach-loop) and print its key-value pairs.
1. Use Dictionary<K, T> to count how many times each element occurs (like in the previous problem) and List<T> where you can add all elements occurring even number of times.
1. Use Dictionary<string, int> with word as a key and number of occurrences as a value. After counting all the words, sort the dictionary by value using something like this:
    - var sorted = dictionary.OrderBy(p => p.Value);
    - To use the OrderBy(<keySelector>) extension method you need to include the System.Linq namespace.
1. Use the element of the set as key and value at the same time.
1. Use hash-table of hash-tables: Dictionary<key, Dictionary<key, value>>. Think about how to add and search elements in this structure.
1. Use Dictionary<K, List<V>>.
1. You can use GetHashCode() % size as the first hash-function, (GetHashCode() * 83 + 7) % size as the second, (GetHashCode () * GetHashCode() + 19) % size) as the third.
1. Follow the example from the section "Implementation of a Dictionary with Hash-Table and Chaining". Read about quadratic probing in Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratic_probing. In order to expand the hash table (double its size), you can allocate an array with double size, transfer all the elements from the old one to the new one and at the end redirect the reference from the old array to the new one. To have foreach on your collection, implement the interface IEnumerable and inside your GetEnumerator() method you must return GetEnumerator() to the array of lists. You can use yield operator.
1. One way to solve the task is to use as key for the hash-table the element of the set and as a value always true. The union and intersection will be done by looping all the elements of the first set and checking if there is (respectively there is not) element of the second one.
1. Find all the members of the three sequences inside the given range and using HashSet<int> implement union and intersection of sets after that. At the end do the calculations requested.
1. TreeMultiSet<T> class you can implement by using the .NET system class SortedDictionary<K, List<T>>. It is not so easy, so take enough time to write the code and test it.
1. The obvious solution is to check for all the buses whether they arrive or depart in the given range. But according to the task terms we have to use HashSet<T>. Let’s think how.
    - With a linear scan (a for-loop) we can find all buses arriving after the beginning of the range and find all buses departing before the end of the range. These are two separate sets, right? The intersection of these sets should give us the set of buses we need.
    - If TimeInterval is a class, keeping the schedule of a bus (arriveHour, arriveMinute, departureHour, departureMinute), the intersection could be efficiently found by HashSet<TimeInterval> with correctly defined GetHashCode() and Equals().
    - Another, efficient solution is to use SortedSet<T> and its method GetViewBetween(<start>, <end>), but this contradicts to the problem description (recall that we are assigned to use HashSet<T>).
1. The first idea for a solution is simple: Using two nested loops we find all lucky sub-sequences of the sequence P. After that we sort them by their length (and by their elements as second criteria) and at the end we print the first 10. However, this algorithm will not work well if we have millions of sub-sequences. It may cause "out of memory".
    - We would describe an idea for a much efficient solution: we will first define a class Sequence<T> to hold a sequence of elements. We will implement IComparable<Sequence<T>> to compare sequences by length in decreasing order (and by elements in decreasing order when the length is the same).
    - Later we will use our TreeMultiSet<T> class. Inside we will keep the first 10 sub-sequences of S, i.e. multi-set of the lucky sub-sequences of P, kept in decreasing order by length (and in decreasing order of their content when the length is the same). When we have 10 sub-sequences inside the multi-set and we add 11th sequence, it would take its correct place in the order, because of the IComparable<Sequence<T>> defined. After that we can delete the 11th subsequence, because it is not amongst the first 10. In that way we would always keep the first 10 elements, discarding the others in any given moment, consuming much less memory and with no need of sorting at the end. The implementation is not so easy, so spare enough time for it.