# Chapter 11 Solutions and Guidelines

1. Use `DateTime.IsLeapYear(year)`.
2. Use the class `Random`. You may generate random numbers in the range [100, 200] by calling `Random.Next(100, 201)`.
3. Use `DateTime.Today.DayOfWeek`.
4. Use the property `Environment.TickCount`, in order to get the count of passed milliseconds. Use the fact that one second has 1,000 milliseconds; one minute has 60 seconds; one hour has 60 minutes and one day has 24 hours.
5. The hypotenuse of a rectangular triangle could be found with the **Pythagorean Theorem** a<sup>2</sup> + b<sup>2</sup> = c<sup>2</sup>, where a and b are the two sides, and c is the hypotenuse. Take square root of the two sides of the equation in order to get the length of the hypotenuse. Use the `Sqrt(...)` methods of the `Math` class.
6. For the first sub-problem of the task use the Heron’s Formula S= √(p(p-a)(p-b)(p-c)), where p=(a+b+c)/2. For the second sub-problem use the formula: S=  (a*h<sub>a</sub>)/2. For the third sub-problem use the formula: S =  (a * b * sin(y))/2. For the sine use the `System.Math` class.
7. Make a **new project in Visual Studio,** right click on the folder and choose the menu **Add -> New Folder.** Then enter the name of the folder and press [Enter], right click on the newly made folder and choose **Add -> New Item...** from the list choose **Class,** for the name of the new class enter `Cat` and press **[Add].** Change the definition of the newly created class with the definition, which we gave to this chapter, to put the classes in a namespace. Make the same to the class `Sequence`.
8. Create an array with 10 elements of type `Cat`. Create 10 objects of type `Cat` in a loop (use a constructor with parameters) and assign them to the corresponding element of the array. For the serial number of the objects use the method `NextValue()` of the `Sequence` class. In the end again in an array use the method `SayMiau()` for each of the array elements.
9. Use the class `System.DateTime` and the methods in it. You can execute a loop from the current date (`DateTime.Now.Date`) to the end date, consecutively incrementing the day by the method `AddDays(1)` and count the working days according to your country (e.g. all days except Saturday and Sunday and a few fixed non-working official holidays).

    Another approach that might work is to **subtract the dates** to find the `TimeSpan` between them (`DateTime` values can be subtracted, just like a numbers). This will give you the count of days between the dates. You will need to perform some additional calculations to find how much weekends are included in this count and discard them.

10. Use `String.Split(' ')` to split the string by spaces. Then use `Int32.Parse(...)` to extract the separate numbers from the obtained `string` array as `int` values and sum them.
11. Use the class `System.Random` and its method `Next(...)` to select a random laudatory phrase, laudatory story, first name, last name and city and combine them.
12. **Calculating a numeral expression** is **quite hard** and is unlikely a beginner programmer to solve it correctly without external help. As a start check out the article in Wikipedia about the **"Shunting-yard algorithm"** (en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shunting-yard_algorithm) describing how to convert an expression from to **postfix notation** (reversed Polish notation), and the article about **calculating a postfix expression** (en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish notation). There are really much special cases, so be sure to test your solution carefully.
13. 